# 6.1 Credit risk scoring project

Say you are going to a bank, and want to buy a mobile phone, and you need a loan. You have to fill out a form with some basic statistics:
- Income
- Price of phone
- Loan needed
- Whether you own or rent house
- How much you cash you have

Then, the bank gives you an answer based on this information and your history with them. Need to make a model to make this decision. Banker will enter this money into the model and the model will return the probability of the risk the customer will default (won't be able to pay back).

Can make this model with the data we have on existing customers and loans, and which ones defaulted or not. This is a **binary** classification problem. Want to train a model that, given a customer, gives the probability the customer will default.

*X* or examples will be the customer statistics for loans, *y* will be if they defaulted or not.

## Dataset  

We will be using [credit scoring data](https://github.com/gastonstat/CreditScoring), loading from a CSV.

Output: Status (defaulted or not)

Features:
1. Status	    - credit status
2. Seniority	- job seniority (years)
3. Home	        - type of home ownership
4. Time	        - time of requested loan
5. Age	        - client's age
6. Marital	    - marital status
7. Records	    - existance of records
8. Job	        - type of job
9. Expenses	    - amount of expenses
10. Income	    - amount of income
11. Assets	    - amount of assets
12. Debt	    - amount of debt
13. Amount	    - amount requested of loan
14. Price	    - price of good

## Chapter Summary

1. Introduction
2. Data Cleaning and Preparation
3. Decision Trees
    - ML model that learns if-then rules from dataset (will not implement)
4. Decision tree learning algorithm
    - How learn they learn these rules
5. Decision Trees Parameter Tuning
6. Ensembles and Random Forests
    - Combining multiple trees together
7. Gradient Boosting and XGBoost
    - Gradient boosting decision trees
    - XGBoost library
8. XGBoost Parameter Tuning
9. Selecting the Final Model