# 1.1 Introduction to Machine Learning (ML)

Here we use an example to understand machine learning: predicting the price of a car.
- Ex: Car classified website
	- When a user creates a listing, they also have to add a price
	- User does not want to price too high or too low. They can try to look at other listings
	- Website wants to help user with the balancing act of pricing the car


## What do we know about cars (features)?
- User submitted price
- Car price (older the car, the cheaper it is)
- The make (BMW more expensive than VW)
- Mileage (the more km's, the cheaper it is)
- Etc
Usually, an expert can determine the price from this information.

## How do experts know?
- They looked at a lot of data about car listings and learned patterns
If an expert can do this, so can a model

## When trained on a lot of data about car listings, ML models can learn this too

**Features** - what we know about cars. The information given to the ML model

**Target** - what we want to know. The ML model tries to predict this

## Training
So, we take all our features, and extract for all the cars we have.
- Features given as a table, target given as a column
- These are used to train the ML model
- Once this model has learned patterns on the data, we use it to make predictions for cars we do not know the price of.

## Usage
When we want to help a user determine the price of car:
- User puts all the car information into a form
- We use this as the features for a prediction. The model predicts the price and presents it to the user.

# Summary
- Machine Learning is the practice of automatically extracting patterns from data
- Patterns is usually of two types. 
	- Features - all the information about a problem
	- Target - what we want to predict about the problem
- In the output, we get a trained model that encapsulates all these patterns
- In our example:
	- Car data are the features (year, make, mileage etc)
	- Known car prices are the targets
	- Predictions are the price predictions
